Hello, students.
I'm Amy Henniges.
And I'll be your
instructor for the HIM 310
course on health care
systems in organizations.
You can feel free
to call me Amy.
Let me tell you a
little bit about myself.
I'm a registered nurse.
And I've been a nurse
for over 30 years.
I initially graduated from
the Bellin School of Nursing
with a three-year
diploma in nursing an
and then went on to complete
my bachelor's degree
in nursing from the University
of Wisconsin, Green Bay.
And then it took a part-time
approach to graduate school
as I started a family.
And I graduated
from the University
of Wisconsin, Oshkosh, with
a master's degree in nursing,
where I focused on
being a nurse educator.
I'm also currently certified
in case management.
I can relate to college
students because I
know what it's like
to be in your shoes
and to balance work life
with a busy family life.
I'm currently the Director
of the Counseling and Health
Center on campus here
at UW, Green Bay.
And I have the privilege of
working with students nearly
every day in that role as well.
I've taught at
the Bellin College
and at Northeast Wisconsin
Technical College as well.
And I'm currently married
for over 30 years.
And I have three
young adult children.
Two are recent college grads
and one is a senior in college.
In my spare time, I
enjoy quilting and baking
and spending time with
family and friends,
especially up north at
our cabin in Eagle River.
I am super excited to be your
instructor for this course
because I have worked across
the health care continuum.
In my early years, I worked
in the acute hospital,
then on to home health care,
acute inpatient rehabilitation,
where we piloted a
model of case management
and I went on to actually become
the director of case management
for a local hospital and
supervise case managers working
in the inpatient, outpatient,
and emergency room settings.
And now, currently, I'm
working in college health.
And over the last 30
years, I've really
witnessed how much technology
enhances health care.
I've had the opportunity
to spearhead and launch
two different
electronic documentation
systems in two
different settings.
I'm super passionate,
also, about
interdisciplinary
collaboration and care
for patients and clients.
And I truly respect a vital
role that health information
management plays in
our health care system.
I can vouch for how clear and
concise documentation not only
communicates care, but also
helps us coordinate care
for patients and clients.
And how clear and concise
documentation is also
critical to reimbursement, which
is so important in health care.
I'd like, next, to just review
the expectations of the course.
What I expect from
you, as a student,
is that you'll
complete the readings
as assigned prior
to the discussions.
And that you'll be contributing
to our class discussions
and exercises.
And that you'll be making timely
postings on the discussion
board.
And that you'll help us stay
on track with our schedule.
I'll also expect that
you'll be comfortable
using the online library
at your local school,
and that you'll really plan
to invest at least nine
hours a week in doing the
readings, the preparation,
and the assignments, as this
is a three credit course.
What you can expect from
me, as your instructor,
is that I'll respond
to emails and postings
as quickly as possible.
And you'll find that
most of my responses
will occur in the
evenings and on weekends.
But I also will be available for
more urgent needs by cell phone
and my cell phone number
is listed on the news page.
I also plan to provide
challenging thoughts and ideas
as well as rhetorical
questions back to you
to get you to think more deeply
and to expand on your ideas,
based on my 30 years of
experience in health care.
And I will be
following the grading
rubric listed in the syllabus.
In summary, I look forward
to partnering with you
in this course.
I hope that you will
find me accessible.
I really feel like we're
all in this together.
I wish you good
luck in the course.
And I hope that
you will enjoy it.
Thank you.